# BrainMusicWaves

  In this experiment, we are trying to find ways to answer the question, “What are the best ways to exercise the brain for wellness, in order to delay the onset of progressive disorders?” It is understood that due to age-related changes and inactivity, those respective parts of the brain can deteriorate. While there is not a single root cause for a progressive disorder such as Alzheimer’s, the lifestyle and environment of an individual can present more of a risk to increase the probability. One of the lifestyle changes, suggested by Researcher Dr. Anita Colins, was to simply play an instrument. She argues listening to music can "light up multiple areas of the brain", and actually playing the instrument presents the brain’s “full-body workout.” But by being experienced in 3 different musical artforms in Indian music, the question soon became “What is the most effective South Indian Classical artform that can exercise the brain?”
  
I hypothesized saying that South Indian violin is the most efficient way to exercise the brain, because it is the most challenging of the 3 prominent artforms, which was singing, playing the violin, and South Indian drum (mridangam). When it comes to compositions, singing takes memorization as its foundation and the majority of songs chosen follow a 4/4 signature for the drum, but the violinist does not know the tune and must have the ability to adapt. Another integral aspect in Carnatic performances is the improvisation, known as Manodharmam, and both accompanists, drummer and vioinist, do not know what the singer's agenda is during a composition and must be ready. The differentiating factor between the mridangam and the violin is that while both hold a pitch, the violin has the capability mimic the voice in ways the mridangam cannot.
  
 Testing this theory, the sample population is to be 10 vocalists, 10 violinists, and 10 mridangists, along with other instrumentalists to see how their brain would react to different melodies and exercises to perform. To accurately measure and compare readings to these participants, the technologies utilized for brainwave measurements are the Q-EEG(quantitative Electro-Encephalogram) readings supplemented with FMRI (functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging) and PET (positron Emission Tomography) readings. What we are trying to understand from these readings is how the musicians use their (body)motor functions along with their creative and mathematical ideas to holistically exercise their brain.
 
 From researching these readings, the thought idea was able to be put together that given the brainwave readings provided with inactive portions of an individual's brain, the "Brain Gym Schedule"would be able to exercise that specific section with a given instrument and exercise, thus increasing the hand-eye coordination, mental agility and alertness of the individual, and successfully prolonging the onset of progressive disorders. 
 
 
